# Pharmacy-Inventory-Management-System
Currently the pharmacy is using a manual system to handle the inventory process. When patients arrive they had to wait in the line to get their desired medicines. When the patient gets his/her turn, the receptionist takes the prescription and go over the manual folder to check the availability and price of the medicine. Calculation of bills and inventory are done manually. As the current system is a file based one, management of the pharmacy has to put much effort on securing the files. They can be easily damaged by fire and natural disasters. Also could be misplaced by losing data and information. Limited storage space of the files is another issue that they currently face when the management is manually done.

If we want to check a previous record of a patient or other detail. Management will be in a great problem. It’s a tough and time taking process to search for a record in a file. Keeping files takes much time and waste much precious man hours. The tendency of making mistakes is high when functioning manually. It is hard to rely on the accuracy of calculations done manually too. It is more obvious for problems to arise. 

We plan to overcome the above mentioned problems through a standalone application, to manage the major functions of the Pharmacy Inventory System.
The Pharmacy Inventory Management System that we are going to implement will be covering all basic processes done in the pharmacy. So the staff does not need to spend time on writing stock records and updating them in files. And the serial number issuing process for medicines becomes easier and efficient. Keeping the track of stock and medical prescription details allow them to review the details whenever needed. 
